title: Starplex
description: The only novel of its year to be nominated for both the Hugo and Nebula Awards. Starplex won Canada's Aurora Award for best novel of the year. "Big spaceships, alien civilizations, the mysteries of the cosmos, and a story that roams through the vastness of time and space. All of the elements of a big-scale, hard science fiction adventure story are present right from the start. Starplex is the very model of a modern hard science fiction novel."--SF Site For nearly twenty years Earth's space exploration had exploded outward, thanks to a series of mysterious, artificial wormholes. No one knows who created these interstellar passages, yet they have brought the far reaches of space immediately close. For Starplex Director Keith Lansing, too close. Discovery is superseding understanding. And when an unknown vessel--with no windows, no seams, and no visible means of propulsion--arrives through a new wormhole, an already battle-scarred Starplex could be the starting point of a new interstellar war . . . This special Kobo edition includes the bonus short story The Shoulders of Giants. "Starplex should gladden the hearts of readers who complain that nobody's writing real science fiction anymore, the kind of story that has faster-than-light spaceships and far-off planets and interstellar combat. Here's a story with plenty of slam-bang action but no shortage of material to attract thinking readers, either. Sawyer deftly juggles half a dozen sweeping questions of cosmology (not to mention everyday ethics and morality) while keeping the story moving ahead full speed. Enjoy."--Asimov's Science Fiction "Mind-boggling. A complaint often heard these days is that there's not enough 'sense of wonder' in today's science fiction. Starplex ought to lay that complaint to rest for quite a while."--Analog Science Fiction and Fact "Sawyer is on a par with giants like Asimov and Heinlein--and, perhaps more than any other science fiction writer working today, he understands that it's a genre about ideas."--Mystery News "Starplex appears to be traditional science fiction--it takes place aboard a spaceship, and several characters are extraterrestrial--but it's actually a rumination on several very deep questions, including: Where did we come from? Where are we going? And the deepest of the deep, Is there a God?"--The Halifax Chronicle-Herald ROBERT J. SAWYER has won the Hugo, Nebula, John W. Campbell Memorial, Seiun, and Aurora Awards, all for best science fiction novel of the year. His novels include Hominids, Rollback, Wake, and FlashForward (basis for the TV series).
rating: 4.125
rating_count: 16
release_date: 1996-01-01
genres: Science fiction, Aliens, Fantasy, Fiction